[[ag_restart_tower]]
== Starting, Stopping, and Restarting the Controller

Automation controller ships with an _admin utility script_,
`automation-controller-service`, that can start, stop, and restart all
the controller services running on the current single controller node
(including the message queue components, and the database if it is an
integrated installation). External databases must be explicitly managed
by the administrator. The services script resides in
`/usr/bin/automation-controller-service` and can be invoked as follows:

....
root@localhost:~$ automation-controller-service restart
....

Note

In clustered installs, `automation-controller-service restart` does not
include PostgreSQL as part of the services that are restarted because it
exists external to the controller, and because PostgreSQL does not
always require a restart. Use `systemctl restart automation-controller`
to restart services on clustered environments instead. Also you must
restart each cluster node for certain changes to persist as opposed to a
single node for a localhost install. For more information on clustered
environments, see the {ag_clustering} section.

You can also invoke the services script via distribution-specific
service management commands. Distribution packages often provide a
similar script, sometimes as an init script, to manage services. Refer
to your distribution-specific service management system for more
information.

Note

When running the controller in a container, do not use the
`automation-controller-service` script. Restart the pod using the
container environment instead.
