[[ag_session_limits]]
== Working with Session Limits

Setting a session limit allows administrators to limit the number of
simultaneous sessions per user or per IP address.

In automation controller, a session is created for each browser that a
user uses to log in, which forces the user to log out any extra sessions
after they exceed the administrator-defined maximum.

Session limits may be important, depending on your particular setup. For
example, perhaps you only want a single user on your system with a
single login per device (where the user could log in on his work laptop,
phone, or home computer). In such a case, you would want to create a
session limit equal to 1 (one). If the user logs in on his laptop, for
example, then logs in using his phone, his laptop session expires (times
out) and only the login on the phone persists.

While session counts can be very limited, they can also be expanded to
cover as many session logins as are needed by your organization.

When a user logs in and their login results in other users being logged
out, the session limit has been reached and those users who are logged
out are notified as to why the logout occurred.

To make changes to your session limits, navigate to the *Miscellaneous
System settings* of the Settings menu and edit the *Maximum Number Of
Simultaneous Logged In Sessions* setting or use the
`Browsable API <controllerapi:api_browsable_api>` if you are comfortable
with making REST requests.

Note

To make the best use of session limits, disable `AUTH_BASIC_ENABLED` by
changing the value to `False`, as it falls outside of the scope of
session limit enforcement. Alternatively, in the System Settings of the
controller UI, toggle the *Enable HTTP Basic Auth* to off.

image:configure-tower-session-limits.png[image]

Caution

Proactive session limits will kick the user out when the session is
idle. It is strongly recommended that you do not set the session limit
to anything less than 1 minute, as doing so will break your automation
controller instance.
