== Setting up a Project

single: projects

A Project is a logical collection of Ansible playbooks, represented in
the controller.

You can manage playbooks and playbook directories by either placing them
manually under the Project Base Path on your controller server, or by
placing your playbooks into a source code management (SCM) system
supported by the controller, including Git, Subversion, and Mercurial.

Note

It is recommended that, whenever possible, you use source control to
manage your playbooks. This type of best practice provides the ability
to treat your infrastructure as code and is in line with DevOps ideals.
While this Quick Start Guide uses lightweight examples to get you up and
running, we suggest using source control to manage playbook for
production purposes.

To review existing projects, click *Projects* from the left navigation
bar.

image:images/qs-projects-home.png[Projects - home]

The simplifies the startup process by providing you with a Demo Project
to work with initially.

Click on *Demo Project* to view its details.

image:images/qs-demo-project-details.png[Projects - demo project]

For the purpose of this Quick Start Guide, leave the default demo
project as is. But to edit the default project later - from the Details
tab, click *Edit*, or from the Projects list view, click the Edit
(image:images/edit-button.png[edit]) button next to the project name to
edit the appropriate details, then save your changes.

If you want to fetch the project for latest changes, you can manually
start an SCM sync for this project. Update the SCM-based demo project
from the Details tab, click *Sync*, or from the Projects list view,
click the Sync (image:images/refresh-button.png[sync]) button next to
the project name.

image:images/qs-demo-project-sync-icon-hover.png[image]

Note

Please note that immediately after adding new projects setup to use
source control, a "sync" automatically starts that fetches the project
details from the configured source control.
