[[ug_start]]
== Automation Controller User Guide 4.3.0

Thank you for your interest in Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform
controller. Automation controller helps teams manage complex multi-tier
deployments by adding control, knowledge, and delegation to
Ansible-powered environments.

The Automation Controller User Guide discusses all of the functionality
available in automation controller and assumes moderate familiarity with
Ansible, including concepts such as *Playbooks*, *Variables*, and
*Tags*. For more information on these and other Ansible concepts, please
see the Ansible documentation at http://docs.ansible.com/. This document
has been updated to include information for the latest release of .

*We Need Feedback!*

If you spot a typo in this documentation, or if you have thought of a
way to make this manual better, we would love to hear from you! Please
send an email to: docs@ansible.com

If you have a suggestion, try to be as specific as possible when
describing it. If you have found an error, please include the manual's
title, chapter number/section number, and some of the surrounding text
so we can find it easily. We may not be able to respond to every message
sent to us, but you can be sure that we will be reading them all!

Automation Controller Version 4.3.0; ; https://access.redhat.com/

self overview license-support logging_in import_license main_menu
search_sort organizations users teams credentials credential_types
credential_plugins applications_auth execution_environments ee_reference
projects inventories inventory_plugins_templates job_templates
job_slices workflows workflow_templates instance_groups jobs webhooks
notifications notification_parameters_supported scheduling insights
best_practices security glossary

=== Index

____________
* `genindex`
____________

include::copyright.adoc[]
