== Overview

Thank you for your interest in Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.
Ansible Automation Platform makes it possible for users across an
organization to share, vet, and manage automation content by means of a
simple, powerful, and agentless technical implementation. IT managers
can provide guidelines on how automation is applied to individual teams.
Meanwhile, automation developers retain the freedom to write tasks that
use existing knowledge, without the operational overhead of conforming
to complex tools and frameworks. It is a more secure and stable
foundation for deploying end-to-end automation solutions, from hybrid
cloud to the edge.

Ansible Automation Platform includes automation controller, which allows
users to define, operate, scale, and delegate automation across their
enterprise.

=== Real-time Playbook Output and Exploration

Watch playbooks run in real time, seeing each host as they check in.
Easily go back and explore the results for specific tasks and hosts in
great detail. Search for specific plays or hosts and see just those
results, or quickly zero in on errors that need to be corrected.

=== "Push Button" Automation

Access your favorite projects and re-trigger execution from the web
interface with a minimum of clicking. automation controller will ask for
input variables, prompt for your credentials, kick off and monitor the
job, and display results and host history over time.

=== Enhanced and Simplified Role-Based Access Control and Auditing

Automation controller allows for the granting of permissions to perform
a specific task (such as to view, create, or modify a file) to different
teams or explicit users through role-based access control (RBAC).

Keep some projects private, while allowing some users to edit inventory
and others to run playbooks against only certain systems--either in
check (dry run) or live mode. You can also allow certain users to use
credentials without exposing the credentials to them. Regardless of what
you do, automation controller records the history of operations and who
made them--including objects edited and jobs launched.

Based on user feedback, automation controller both expands and
simplifies its role-based access control. No longer is job template
visibility configured via a combination of permissions on inventory,
projects, and credentials. If you want to give any user or team
permissions to use a job template, just assign permissions directly on
the job template. Similarly, credentials are now full objects in
automation controller's RBAC system, and can be assigned to multiple
users and/or teams for use.

Automation controller includes an ‘Auditor’ type, who can see all
aspects of the systems automation, but has no permission to run or
change automation, for those that need a system-level auditor. (This may
also be useful for a service account that scrapes automation information
from the REST API.) Refer to `rbac-ug` for more information.

Subsequent releases of automation controller provides more granular
permissions, making it easier to delegate inside your organizations and
remove automation bottlenecks.

=== Cloud & Autoscaling Flexibility

Automation controller features a powerful provisioning callback feature
that allows nodes to request configuration on demand. While optional,
this is an ideal solution for a cloud auto-scaling scenario, integrating
with provisioning servers like Cobbler, or when dealing with managed
systems with unpredictable uptimes. Requiring no management software to
be installed on remote nodes, the callback solution can be triggered via
a simple call to 'curl' or 'wget', and is easily embeddable in init
scripts, kickstarts, or preseeds. Access is controlled such that only
machines in inventory can request configuration.

=== The Ideal RESTful API

The automation controller REST API is the ideal RESTful API for a
systems management application, with all resources fully discoverable,
paginated, searchable, and well modeled. A styled API browser allows API
exploration from the API root at `http://<server name>/api/`, showing
off every resource and relation. Everything that can be done in the user
interface can be done in the API - and more.

=== Backup and Restore

The ability to backup and restore your system(s) has been integrated
into the Ansible Automation Platform setup playbook, making it easy for
you to backup and replicate your instance as needed.

=== Ansible Galaxy Integration

When it comes to describing your automation, everyone repeats the DRY
mantra--"Don’t Repeat Yourself." Using centralized copies of Ansible
roles, such as in Ansible Galaxy, allows you to bring that philosophy to
your playbooks. By including an Ansible Galaxy requirements.yml file in
your project directory, automation controller automatically fetches the
roles your playbook needs from Galaxy, GitHub, or your local source
control. Refer to `ug_galaxy` for more information.

=== Inventory Support for OpenStack

Ansible is committed to making OpenStack simple for everyone to use. As
part of that, dynamic inventory support has been added for OpenStack.
This allows you to easily target any of the virtual machines or images
that you’re running in your OpenStack cloud.

=== Remote Command Execution

Often times, you just need to do a simple task on a few hosts, whether
it’s add a single user, update a single security vulnerability, or
restart a misbehaving service. Automation controller includes remote
command execution--any task that you can describe as a single Ansible
play can be run on a host or group of hosts in your inventory, allowing
you to get managing your systems quickly and easily. Plus, it is all
backed by an RBAC engine and detailed audit logging, removing any
questions regarding who has done what to what machines.

=== System Tracking

You can collect facts by using the fact caching feature. Refer to
`ug_fact_caching` for more detail.

=== Integrated Notifications

automation controller allows you to easily keep track of the status of
your automation. You can configure stackable notifications for job
templates, projects, or entire organizations, and configure different
notifications for job start, job success, job failure, and job approval
(for workflow nodes). The following notification sources are supported:

* Email
* Grafana
* IRC
* Mattermost
* PagerDuty
* Rocket.Chat
* Slack
* Twilio
* Webhook (post to an arbitrary webhook, for integration into other
tools)

Additionally, you can
`customize notification messages <ug_custom_notifications>` for each of
the above notification types.

=== Satellite Integration

Dynamic inventory sources for Red Hat Satellite 6 are supported.

=== Run-time Job Customization

Bringing the flexibility of the Ansible command line, you can now prompt
for any of the following:

* inventory
* credential
* job tags
* limits

=== Red Hat Insights Integration

Automation controller supports integration with Red Hat Insights, which
allows Insights playbooks to be used as a Ansible Automation Platform
Project.

=== Enhanced User Interface

The layout of the user interface is organized with intuitive
navigational elements. With information displayed at-a-glance, it is
intuitive to find and use the automation you need. Compact and expanded
viewing modes show and hide information as needed, and various built-in
attributes make it easy to sort.

=== Custom Virtual Environments

Custom Ansible environment support allows you to have different Ansible
environments and specify custom paths for different teams and jobs.

=== Authentication Enhancements

Automation controller supports LDAP, SAML, token-based authentication.
Enhanced LDAP and SAML support allows you to integrate your enterprise
account information in a more flexible manner. Token-based
Authentication allows for easily authentication of third-party tools and
services with automation controller via integrated OAuth 2 token
support.

=== Cluster Management

Run-time management of cluster groups allows for easily configurable
scaling.

=== Container Platform Support

Ansible Automation Platform is available as a containerized pod service
for Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform that can be scaled up and down
easily as needed.

=== Workflow Enhancements

In order to better model your complex provisioning, deployment, and
orchestration workflows, automation controller expanded workflows in a
number of ways:

* *Inventory overrides for Workflows*. You can now override an inventory
across a workflow at workflow definition time, or even at launch time.
Define your application deployment workflow, and then easily re-use them
in multiple environments.
* *Convergence nodes for Workflows*. When modeling complex processes,
you sometimes need to wait for multiple steps to finish before
proceeding. Now automation controller workflows can easily replicate
this; workflow steps can now wait for any number of prior workflow steps
to complete properly before proceeding.
* *Workflow Nesting*. Re-use individual workflows as components of a
larger workflow. Examples include combining provisioning and application
deployment workflows into a single master workflow.
* *Workflow Pause and Approval*. You can build workflows containing
approval nodes that require user intervention. This makes it possible to
pause workflows in between playbooks so that a user can give approval
(or denial) for continuing on to the next step in the workflow.

=== Job Distribution

As automation moves enterprise-wide, the need to automate at scale
grows. Automation controller offer the ability to take a fact gathering
or configuration job running across thousands of machines and slice it
into individual job slices that can be distributed across your
automation controller cluster for increased reliability, faster job
completion, and better cluster utilization. If you need to change a
parameter across 15,000 switches at scale, or gather information across
your multi-thousand-node RHEL estate, you can now do so easily.

=== Support for deployment in a FIPS-enabled environment

If you require running your environment in restricted modes such as
FIPS, automation controller deploys and runs in such environments.

=== Limit the number of hosts per organization

Lots of large organizations have instances shared among many
organizations. They do not want any one organization to be able to use
all the licensed hosts, this feature allows superusers to set a
specified upper limit on how many licensed hosts may be allocated to
each organization. The automation controller algorithm factors changes
in the limit for an organization and the number of total hosts across
all organizations. Any inventory updates will fail if an inventory sync
brings an organization out of compliance with the policy. Additionally,
superusers are able to 'over-allocate' their licenses, with a warning.

=== Inventory Plugins

Updated automation controller to use the following inventory plugins
from upstream collections if inventory updates are run with Ansible 2.9:

* amazon.aws.aws_ec2
* community.vmware.vmware_vm_inventory
* azure.azcollection.azure_rm
* google.cloud.gcp_compute
* theforeman.foreman.foreman
* openstack.cloud.openstack
* ovirt.ovirt.ovirt
* awx.awx.tower

=== Secret Management System

With a secret management system, external credentials are stored and
supplied for use in automation controller so you don't have to provide
them directly.

=== Automation Hub Integration

Automation Hub will act as a content provider for automation controller,
which requires both an automation controller deployment and an
Automation Hub deployment running alongside each other.
